Job Description: Senior Researcher in Computer/Data Science (4 positions)
Faculty/Centre:
Salary:
Hours of work:
Number of positions:
Contract:
Location:

Introduction

HET Systems Centre
From 2864 Euros per month (before taxes)
Full time
4
1-Year fixed-term, leading to a 5-years long-term contract and
permanent employment thereafter based on performance.
Vilnius, Lithuania

Mykolas Romeris University (MRU), established in 1990 after the restoration of
the country’s independence, is the youngest public institution of higher
education in Lithuania, and the largest delivering research and education in
social science and humanities. Located in Vilnius, the country’s capital, MRU
is today a modern, open, dynamic and international university that welcomes
learners and scholars from around the world.
The Human-Environment-Technology (HET) Systems Centre, led by Dr Sergio
Jofre, is a newly established academic unit at MRU that reflects on the
university’s long-term strategic plan to enhance the internationalization and
interdisciplinarity of research and education. The Centre’s research focuses on
the cross-disciplinary exploration of complex systems defined by the
interaction, interdependency, and co-evolution of human, environmental, and
technological factors. Examples of HET systems include energy systems,
transport, food systems, health, smart cities, autonomous vehicles, and more.

Background
information

As a member of the HET Systems Centre at MRU, you will join a small, but
active international team of colleagues conducting world-class inter- and crossdisciplinary research in areas such as for example cyber security and resilience
of critical infrastructure, trustworthy AI by design, autonomous vehicles,
Industry 4.0, and digital transformation of the circular economy. The Centre
already counts with a strong network of partners and collaborations within and
beyond Europe, offering interesting opportunities for research and mobility.
You will work alongside the Centre’s Director and other researchers to further
develop existent and new research lines within the overall theme of the Centre
and your own interest. As the development of the Centre progresses over time,
each researcher will have the opportunity and support to form and lead
research lines aligned with their career goals.
In general, you will be expected to have a proactive and independent role on
the Centre’s scientific production, dissemination of research outcomes,
attraction of external research funding, and networking. Although the position
focuses on research, a minor but decisive participation in education activities
will be encouraged (e.g., supervision of students’ research projects, curricular
development, or teaching in relevant subjects).

1

In addition to the base salary, researchers at MRU, who participate in externally
funded research projects, are entitled to an additional bonus commensurate to
their workload in the project.
We are seeking to employ four senior researchers to work and develop highquality research in one of these areas:
Position 1: Cyber Physical Systems and Cyber Security
Position 2: Internet of Things and Automation
Position 3: Digital Twin Development and Implementation
Position 4: Data Science and/or Data Analytics
Although the posts target senior researchers (Established Researcher, R3
level), applications from candidates with higher or lower qualifications will be
considered, if a strong match with the vision and objectives of the Centre are
identified.
Informal enquiries are welcome and should be directed to:
Dr Sergio Jofre,
Head of HET Systems Centre,
s.jofre@mruni.eu
or
Dr Giedre Sabaliauskaite,
Professor in Cyber Security,
giedre.s@mruni.eu
Please Indicate in the subject: “Job application HET Centre, Senior
Researcher”

Main Purpose
of Post

Management

1. Research Outputs and Activity: Play a significant role in the strategic
direction and development of the research area, sustain a track record of
research outputs and their dissemination in high quality publications or
other media.
2. Research Projects and Grants: Obtain research funding or other resources
to underpin research with responsibility for developing and leading a major
programme of individual or collaborative research.
3. Esteem: Achieve external recognition as an established authority within the
discipline, contributing to the wider academic or professional community.
4. Contributing to Centre’s Activities: Take part in formulating Centre
decisions and contributing to activities beyond the immediate research,
teaching or scholarship commitments.
5. Participating in Professional Activities: Engage with professional activities
related to the discipline through networking at conferences or involvement
in external groups.
6. Managing Self and Others: Support and enable the development of
colleagues, students and/or yourself.

2

Teaching and
Training

General
Duties

7. Teaching Delivery: Contribution to teaching will be encouraged and it might
include preparation of course content and materials, and delivery of
courses in computer/data science related subjects.
8. Mentoring of Students: Engage with mentoring of students at different
levels of education (e.g., supervising final year projects, thesis, etc.).
9. Delivery of Training: Contribute to delivery of training to different
stakeholders in related areas of expertise.
10. Promote equality and diversity in working practices and maintain positive
and collaborative working relationships.
11. Conduct the job role and all activities in accordance with safety, health and
sustainability policies and management systems, to reduce risks and
impacts arising from the work activity.
12. Ensure that risk management is an integral part of any decision-making
process, by ensuring compliance with the University’s Risk Management
Policy.

Person Specification Criteria, General to ALL
Positions (1-4)
Qualifications
1. A PhD in a relevant subject area or closely related
field.
Research
2. A sustained track record of research outputs in
high quality publications or other media showing
a continuing upward trajectory in the quality of
research outputs.
3. Success in obtaining funding or other resources to
underpin original research, with responsibility for
developing and leading a major programme of
individual or collaborative research.

Typically evidenced by:

Application/CV

At least three internationally excellent
outputs in the last five years.

A successful track record of attracting
external grant funding as a Principal
Investigator.

4. External recognition as an established authority Evidence of international peer recognition

within the discipline, contributing to the wider over the last 5 years.
A record of sustained conference
academic or professional community.
participation, membership in scientific
communities, editorial and review
activities, etc.
Teaching
5. Evidence of or ability to undertake effective Positive student or peer feedback, acting as
delivery of teaching and assessment of modules an effective tutor or student project
supervisor with successful outcomes.
and/or supervision of student projects.
Management
6. Taking an active part in decisions and activities in Examples showing personal contribution
an academic unit or institution, beyond own and impact.
research and/or teaching commitments.

3

Specific Criterial for Position 1: Cyber Physical Systems and Cyber Security
Must Have
P1-1. Expertise and experience in Computer Science or closely related field
P1-2. Experience/skills in ethical hacking and/or security testing
P1-3. Advanced programming skills
Desirable
P1-4. Knowledge and/or experience in cyber physical systems, e.g., robots, automated vehicles,
critical infrastructure
P1-5. Knowledge and/or experience in threat analysis and risk assessment
P1-6. Knowledge and/or experience in applying cyber security standards
P1-7. Experience with or understanding about Industry 4.0
P1-8. Skills, knowledge, experience or interest in development and/or application of AI
P1-9. Experience/skills in relevant entrepreneurial/innovation ventures

Specific Criterial for Position 2: Internet of Things and Automation
Must Have
P2-1. Expertise and experience in relevant field of Engineering or Science
P2-2. Knowledge and experience in IoT and automation
P2-3. Experience in Cloud Computing and/or Networks (including 5G)
P2-4. Knowledge and/or experience in Industry 4.0
Desirable
P2-5. Experience working in industry or developing solutions for industry partners/clients
P2-6. Knowledge or experience in Smart Systems/Smart Industry/Smart Cities
P2-7. Knowledge and/or experience in critical infrastructure
P2-8. Experience or interest in developing or applying AI solutions
P2-9. Experience/skills in relevant entrepreneurial/innovation ventures

Specific Criterial for Position 3: Digital Twin Development and Implementation
Must Have
P3-1. Expertise and experience in relevant field of Engineering or Science
P3-2. Relevant experience in development/implementation of digital twins
P3-3. Knowledge and experience in process and system modelling and excellent mathematical
skills (e.g., calculus, algebra, 3D geometry)
P3-4. Excellent programming skills (e.g., Python, C++, Rust)

4

Desirable
P3-5. Experience with Human-Computer Interaction (HCI)
P3-6. Experience or interest on modelling/visualization of complex systems
P3-7. Experience and skills in Metaverse (e.g, XR, MR, VR, AR)
P3-8. Skills in AI and ML
P3-9. Experience with or understanding about Industry 4.0
P3-10. Experience/skills in relevant entrepreneurial/innovation ventures

Specific Criterial for Position 4: Data Science and/or Data Analytics
Must Have
P4-1. Expertise and experience in Data Science or closely related field of Engineering or Science
P4-2. Working experience as data scientist or data analyst in academia and/or industry
P4-3. Solid skills and competences in programming (e.g., Python, R, Java, Scala, SQL, SAS, etc.)
P4-4. Experience developing/training AI models
P4-5. Experience with ML libraries and frameworks
Desirable
P4-6. Experience working with Big Data
P4-7. Experience developing algorithms and data models to forecast outcomes
P4-8. Experience working with Cloud platforms
P4-9. Knowledge, experience or interest in Environmental Information Systems
P4-10. Experience/skills in relevant entrepreneurial/innovation ventures

How to Apply:
Important: Before to prepare and submit your application, please make sure you are
eligible to live and work in Lithuania. For further information on this matter please follow
the following links:
General Information on work permits
How to apply for a work permit/visa
For all applicants:
To apply, please prepare and send the following documents:
1. A cover letter: up to two sides of A4 explaining how you meet each of the selection criteria for
your role (both general and specific), clearly indicating the position you are applying for and
where did you find about the vacancy.

5

2. A CV of a maximum of 3 sides of A4. Please do not include publications, but indicate your
ORCID or Google Scholar ID instead. At the end of your CV, please provide the name and
contact details of TWO relevant persons willing to be contacted to provide references of your
pervious work (please do not include any written letter of reference in your application).
3. A description of research experience and interests, including a brief explanation of your
intended work at and contribution to the Centre: up to three sides of A4.
4. Summary of relevant teaching experience and interests of a maximum of 1 side of A4.
5. A complete list of your publications, including any forthcoming (submitted or under review)
and/or intended (pipeline) publications, if any.

For all your documents, please use a minimum font size of 11pt.
Please organize and submit the documents as ONE single application package (PDF file).
You can apply to more than one position, but you must submit each application separately (one
application package per position).
For shortlisted applicants, two samples of writing (published or unpublished) and copies of
relevant qualifications (officially translated to English if issued in other languages) will be required
ahead of the interview. Please be aware that referees listed in your CV might be contacted at this
point of the selection process.
Interviews will take place in person or remotely, in the week commencing Month, Day.
If you have any special requirement regarding the interview (e.g., due to impairment or disability)
please notify the contact person indicated in this description in advance.
Application deadline:
2025-08-31
APPLY:
Please send your application package to: akademiniaikonkursai@mruni.eu
Indicating in the subject: Job application HET Centre: Senior Researcher Position (position
number 1-4)

6

